# FOCS Homework 11, for Day 12

You may edit your answers into this file, or add a separate file in the same directory.

If you add a separate file, please include the following at the top:

```
Student Name: Leon Lam [change to your name]
Check one:
[X] I completed this assignment without assistance or external resources.
[ ] I completed this assignment with assistance from ___
   and/or using these external resources: ___
```

## I. Formal Proofs

Use the rules of inference from class (reprinted below) to construct formal, numbered proofs of the following:

### 1. 

Assuming _p -> q_ and _p -> r_, prove _p -> (q AND r)_

Assume:
p -> q
p -> r

Therefore:
(p -> q) AND (p -> r)
(p AND p) -> (q AND r)
p -> (q AND r)


### 2.

Assuming _p -> (q OR r)_ and _p -> (q OR NOT r)_, prove _p -> q_

Assume:
p -> (q OR r)
p -> (q OR NOT r)

Therefore:
(p -> (q OR r)) AND (p -> (q OR ~r))
(p AND p) -> (q OR r) AND (q OR ~r)
p -> q


## II. Truth tables

Use a truth table to show the equivalence of the assumptions and conclusion from problem 1, above:  Assuming _p -> q_ and _p -> r_, prove _p -> (q AND r)_

[Style note:  what is the canonical order of the rows in a truth table for three propositions?]


p | q | r | q AND r | p -> q AND r | p->q | p->r
0   0   0      0          1            1     1
0   0   1      0          1            1     1
0   1   1      1          1            1     1
1   0   0      0          0            0     0
1   0   1      0          0            0     1
1   1   0      0          0            1     0
1   1   1      1          1            1     1

p -> q AND r only if p->q and p->r

## III. Tautology, satisfiable, contradiction

Which of the following are tautologies?  Satisfiable?  Unsatisfiable (contradictions)?

### 1. _(p AND q AND r) -> (p OR q)_
Always true


### 2. _((p -> q) AND (q -> r)) -> (p -> r)_
Always true


### 3. _(p -> q) -> p_
This doesn't say anything about p's state, only that p implies q. p's state is unknown.


### 4. _(p OR q OR r) AND ((NOT p) OR (NOT q) OR (NOT r)) AND (p OR (NOT q)) AND (q OR (NOT r)) OR (r OR (not p))_ 
True if r is true or p is false


### 5. [** challenge/optional] _(p <=> (q OR r)) -> ((NOT q) -> (p AND r))_



## IV. CNF

Transform the following formula into conjunctive normal form.  Show your steps.

_p OR (q AND NOT (r AND (s -> t)))_

(p OR q) AND (p OR NOT (r AND (s->t)))

NOT(r AND (s->t)) is true unless r = T and (s->t) = T.

(p OR q) AND (p OR (NOT r) OR (NOT (s->t)))




## V. Short certificate

Demonstrate that the formula in problem IV is satisfiable.  Explain whether you used a  "short certificate" or exhaustive enumeration to make this determination.

If p is true, the whole thing is true. This was 'short certificate', since I didn't have to look at the rest of the formula to make the call.




[several problems adapted from Ullman FOCS ch12]
